What is happening now in Economics, in the Media, in
Universities, in the Bank of England, in the Government
It is a disaster. It is it is a comedy.
It is a disgrace. it is unbelievable
the childishly weak level of
understanding in these institutions
but it is destroying the economy of this country
and the lives of people in this country so people
need to understand it so today we're going
to explain what is going wrong with economics
so in my 14 years of working full-time in
the economy i've never once seen a time
where the public discussion, the public discourse
coming from the media, from the bank of England,
from the government, about the economy has been
as ridiculously stupid as it is right now okay
so we've got a situation where in the last two
years the government printed £450 billion pounds
an unbelievably huge amount of money
and effectively transferred that money
to the richest if you don't understand
why watch the first video on this channel
they printed 450 billion gave it to the
richest and that caused very predictable
consequences which is a big jump in inflation,
a crisis of inequality and cost of living crisis
for ordinary people okay very very predictable
very understandable okay £450 billion isan
enormous amount of money from the government
to the richest who's talking about it no one
no one in media, no one in government, no one in
the bank of england no one in universities right so
in this video what i'm going to talk about
is we're going to explain the system of
economics as its taught at universities and as
it's discussed so that people can understand
why is that all of our institutions that
should be explaining what's happening
have completely failed to understand what's
happening now okay all right so imagine you are a
smart talented young economic student okay a
lot of people study economics nowadays because
it's a degree that gets a pretty good job right
you can get a decent job if you study economics
so you go to a good university you get a top class
degree in economics what you're going to do all
right so you're 21 years old you've just done your
undergrad good school in economics if you want to
become a professor you're gonna have to stay
in academia for another seven eight ten years
pay money every year to study you're going to get
yourself in 100-200 grand of debt and then after
that you'll have to work your way up in academia
maybe six seven years down the line you'll be
making 60-70 grand a year okay or you can go into
the city in one of these skyscrapers over here
and in my case by 26 i was a multi-millionaire
so imagine you are a smart kid from a poor or
ordinary background okay you live in the world we
live in where houses in london cost half a million
seven hundred grand you're from a poor family
which one of these two options are you gonna take
you know think about it okay so we live in a world
where if you're from a poor background you would
be insane to try and get into academic economics
okay and what that means is we end up in a
situation where if you go into economics that sort
of phd level or advanced level there is basically
nobody there from a poor background or if they
are there it's because they basically didn't
get the grades that were good enough to get a
job in the city so we've created a situation now
where there's almost nobody from an
ordinary background studying economics
and if you're really really good at economics
there's an enormous financial incentive
for you to go work in the city right so i did that
i got a degree and i went to work in the city the
statistics completely support this economics is
at least representative of social class of all the
subjects in the USA which is where all the biggest
universities are you're most likely to be from a
family where the parents have degrees or have phds
you're least likely to come from families where
parents don't so it's very very non-representative
of social class but also what it does is basically
creates two separate worlds of economics okay
so the best paid 10 000 economists in the world
they are basically all traders every single one
of them right they all do what i was doing they
work for a fund they work for a big bank they work
at one of these skyscrapers they sit in office and
they make trades okay you will never hear them on
the news you will never ever hear them on the news
okay and these guys get paid you know a million
pounds a year two million pounds a year to manage
money but you will never hear them okay, so when
i was working at Citibank i was a very successful
trader i was getting paid a lot of money my
job was to bet on European interest rates okay
say you're a journalist and you call up Citibank
and you say look we want to know what's going to
happen to the european economy what are your
predictions do you think they put it on the
phone to me they don't put on the phone to me
right they put you on the phone to somebody else
who gets paid 50 grand a year you know 20 times
less than what i get paid and and that person
will give you their opinion but you see what
i'm saying here we've created this system where
there's a huge financial incentive for all the
best economists to work as traders and they
are legally not allowed in their contracts to talk
to the press that's the world that we live in right
so we've created the world where we're selecting
all of the people who think we are the best
we're sending them to the skyscrapers and we're
saying you can't talk to the press you can't talk
to the government you can't talk to the public and
yet we're we're saying if you if you're willing
to work for 30-40 grand a year which no good
economist my poor background is ever going to do
then you can work in the media right and i think
it's um it's really important to understand what
we've done here right we've we've completely
separated out the guys we think we are the best
and we've taken them completely out of the debate
and i think what is quite interesting is you know
i was working in these skyscrapers i was making
a million pounds a year you know what i mean
and i could still go and work any of these
skyscrapers and make a million pounds a year
right but now i'm out here you know telling people
what's happening on YouTube for free and you know
is Rishi Sunak calling me up no he's not you know
i went back to Oxford to do a masters right and
i was one of the most successful best paid
traders in the world for trading interest rates
and i went into a lecture for with a professor
whose job is to teach about interest rates
and i said to him why do you think you guys have
predicted interest rates incorrectly for 10 yearsin
a row and he said to me well "no we always knew
that rates would stay 0%" which is categorically
completely verifiably wrong, right but he's able
to say that because in academia nobody ever goes
back and checks if your predictions are right
you see what i'm saying and then for me i was
able to go into the city and you know come from a
poor background no connections don't know anyone
and within a few years i was famous in the bank
because my predictions were consistently right
and i think it's interesting to contrast the world
of finance where people you work in a bank right
you get a thousand emails a day you want to
talk to a world economic expert anything you
can call them up and they'll talk to you know
what i mean and you are working 100 hour weeks
if you need anything it comes to you straight away
compared to this guy who's working at university
has been wrong 10 years in a row and didn't even
notice and these guys who do that they then go on
to work at the bank of england so you know right
now there's a guy michael saunders on the npc okay
he was employed at citibank as an economist right
to analyze uk interest rates while we were trading
uk interest rates we never read a single thing
that that guy wrote you know this guy was a joke
to us right we're getting paid a million pound
a year this guy's getting paid you know 70 grand
a year to produce things that we never read you
know who do you think the bank really trusts you
know they're giving us a million pounds a year to
manage the money they're giving this guy 70 grand
here to write papers yeah i think it's important
you read to realize these guys in the media these
guys in academia these guys at the bank of england
they're not paid to be right nobody's paying them
to be right this guy at Oxford university can be
wrong for 10 years in a row and never even notice
never even notice like that's unforgivable that's
that's horrifically bad right and these are the
guys who we put in charge of our economy you see
what i'm saying and yeah if you like me have a
consistent track record for being right year after
year after year after year you can go and work
get a million pound deal working for goldman
sachs or for jp morgan you know what i mean
but you can't give the advice to the
government for free because they don't care
because they if listen anyone out there who's
watching right if you work for the government
if you care why you're not calling me? you know
what i mean, these guys think i'm worth a
million pounds a year i'm willing to work for free you
see what i'm saying you know why is Rishi Sunak not
calling me? you know why is the labour party not
calling me? or you know why is the conservative
party not calling me? you know why the university's
not calling me? listen i've been right year after
year and look look at this crisis okay if you
have time now people watching go back and look
at the first video on this channel in that video
i say this crisis is going to cause a massive
transfer of cash from the government to the rich
that will lead to a massive increase in inequality
a mass increase in house prices, a mass increase in
stock prices, a massive increase in inflation and
a cost of living crisis that's there two years
ago two years ago and it that was not difficult
to predict if you understand what's happening
it's not difficult to predict okay and yet now
it's actually happened two years ago and they're
still not talking about it what is what is going
on but if you think about it it makes total sense
right because if at 21 you come in and say listen
all of the best guys we're going to pay you a
million quid a year to never ever speak publicly
and the rest of you who are going to get yourself
200 grand in debt and maybe get half decent job
in 15 years time you are the guys who are going
around the country that's what we're doing that's
what we're doing right and i was working in the
bank and i used to bet year after year we're
going to have a disaster and these guys just say
here go have a million quid, well done, do it again
this is the world that we live in okay where
we select at 21 all of the best economists and
we say you guys are going to bet on it and
we select all of the posh economists who
are not that good and we say you are the
guys who are going to manage it you see
it's crazy what's happening and then and
then now we're in a situation where look
it is verifiable fact that 450 billion pounds
was transferred from the government to the rich
during Covid okay verifiable fact okay if
i was to come to you three years ago before
Covid and say imagine the government printed
450 billion pounds and gave it to the rich
what do you think would happen you don't need to
be an economist you'll say okay well if the rich
get a ton of money they're going to push the
prices up which will be fine for them because
they've got a ton of money that will hurt the rest
of us right and the rich will start to consume a
larger share of the natural resources and natural
resources become more expensive for the rest of us
that's not complicated okay that happened it's
obvious it's obvious and that's 450 billion pounds
and now Rishi Sunak is on tv saying oh don't
worry we stand by ready to help with £5 billion
you give £450 billion to the rich and then
you say we're going to help with five billion
pounds it's not it's not going to it's not going
to help right and then Labour say we're going to
do a windfall tax on oil and gas companies
and we're going to raise two billion pounds
these guys are so far out of touch you
know they're playing a different game
you know if you transfer 450 billion pounds to
the rich and then you take five billion pounds
back you're going to destroy the economy
right but but who's talking about it listen
if you if you work in government okay imagine
you're going to print 450 billion pounds okay
of course somebody in government should say
okay well before we give 450 billion pounds out
we should do a report and analysis of
who's going to get the money we should do
an analysis of where the money is going to end
up who did it who did it who did that analysis
nobody nobody and if anybody is out there in
government or civil service find me that analysis
please please find me one person in government
he said before we give out 450 billion pounds
we should do an analysis of where the money
ended up okay and that's government okay
name me one person in the media who did that
name me one single person in the media who did that
i did it march 2020 what why is it why am i the
only guy doing it if you if you're giving out 450
billion pounds you need to do an analysis where
the money is ending up nobody in government did
it nobody in media did it who are these people you
know it's insane not a single person but then you
know and i was speaking the other day to somebody
from a media institution or who i won't name
and i said why did nobody at your place do it you
know and this guy works for a big newspaper in
london and i said okay answer me one question you
work for a big global newspaper in london is there
anyone in your office that sounds like me anyone
no listen if you run a global organization based
in london and you don't have a single person
on your staff who sounds like me you [__] up
because how can you possibly have the best
people but look we've created a system where
you can get paid a million pound a year over there
or you could get you want to work in media you
have to work for seven-eight years on 30 grand a
year you have to do unpaid internships only rich
people can afford these jobs so we end up with
media full of rich idiots government full of rich
idiots universities full of rich idiots and anyone
who's half smart is making a million quid over
there to shut the [__] up and you're surprised
when the economy is a disaster this is what we've
done we've created a system where we selectively
pick all of the best people who should be helping
to fix this economy to protect the people of this
country to build a good future for this country
and for the world and all they're allowed to do
is sit over there and bet on disaster making money
for themselves you know i'm out here listen i'm
willing to support the government if they actually
want to help this economy i'm here they can call
me i'm willing to work they're not calling me and
the worst thing is they didn't even know what
they don't even realize how bad they're [__]
up who is talking about that 450 billion pounds 10
000 pounds per person look if the government were
to bring in a policy now where they taxed every
person in the country ten thousand pounds and
gave it all to the rich, people would be rioting on
the streets they've done it that is what they did
and not a single person in the media is
talking about it so if anybody's watching
who works in the media please ask yourself
why are you not talking about that money
you can't give 450 billion pounds to the
rich and expect no consequences you cannot
do that and expect no consequences but we live
in a world where anybody who is entitled to a
voice in economics which is academics people
in the media people at the bank of england
people in government has been specifically
selected for not being very good
and anyone who is good can make a
million pounds to never say anything
and if that is the system you build of economics
do you expect to get good outcomes for society
well you don't you will get the outcomes you get
which is me sitting here making a ton of cash
and the economy going to absolute [__] for
the whole world you know what i mean so look
economics is broken it's badly broken
people in the media need to wake up and look at
what's happening um ordinary people out there
you know if you know anyone in media and
government ask them this one simple question
has anyone in your organization done a serious
analysis of who got that 450 billion pounds
450 billion pounds and the amounts the
government is talking about to help 5 billion
six billion after giving up 450 billion you know
and if you know anyone who works for any of these
newspapers you know is the Daily Mail mentioned
it? no. has the Guard ian mentioned it? no. has The
Sun mentioned it? has The Mirror mentioned it
you know? no. has The Times mentioned it you know
the Financial Times probably have and these
guys are reading it you know what i mean but
it's a joke it's a comedy so i
think people need to understand that
we've destroyed economics and you know i was at
oxford university for two years the world would
be a better place if they just burned that
department down because these guys have no
idea what's happening no idea what's happening
they don't think about inequality ever they've
been wrong for 10 years they didn't notice it and
the problem is you know they don't get hurt they
don't get hurt they don't get punished they don't
get hit by its ordinary people that lose out
these guys literally have dinner in their harry potter
hallways every day you know what i mean they get
paid a nice salary and they're wrong year after year
after year after year and they don't even notice
and you know i remember when i was there having
my one midyear review when i told them this and they
said what do you mean? you know things are getting
better sitting there in a wood paneled room in a
castle with these guys wearing their capes saying
things are getting better and you couldn't help
but hear those two missing words you know things
are getting better for us you know because for
those guys it's totally fine for all of these
guys working for the guardian and working in the
bank of england you know andrew bailey gets paid
half a million quid a year to be wrong every year
every single one of these posh idiots is totally
fine and it's ordinary people who are getting hurt
so it's a joke i mean it's a disgrace really
and we need to fix it um but look i'm out
here trying to fix it so if anyone in the
government is listening wake up because
things are gonna get worse and worse and worse
seriously and look i'm not just saying that i'm
betting on it and i'm the guy that's been right
for 10 years in a row and um these are the guys
who've been wrong so people listening should
think about who they trust um but things can uh
things can be fixed but only if we start
addressing the fact that we gave 450 billion
pounds to a bunch of [__] billionaires we don't
fix that - it doesn't get better so hopefully we will
happy?
there you go...